How To Play

To start making sounds with the Noisemusick Board your body has to complete the circuit between the touch pads. Touching the pads on the left will generate the base frequency, while the two pads on the right will modulate that frequency. 

Touch the left two pads, then the right two. By lifting a finger you can create rhythmic patterns of noise. Move your fingers to change the resistance between your finger and the pads which changes the frequency an beating of the tone.

We've included some additional circuitry to smooth out the harsh square waves generated by the circuit. Use the left and right pots to change the shape of the generated signal. The hold button can be used to make the instrument sound continuously without human input.

The Noisemusick Board was designed to create chaotic unique signals. With a little practice and exploration you can find repeatable beating oscillations and interesting interactions. Try using the output of the board as an input to other filters and effects.

About the Noisemusick Board

The Noisemusick synthesizer board is a controllable chaotic noise circuit that can be used in many different performance and recording situations. The circuit is designed around two 555 timers; one generates a square wave and the second modulates the first. Three variations of the circuit provide different effects and sounds. This is a Universal app for iPhones, iPads, and the iPod touch. 

The 555 Timer is one of the oldest integrated circuits still available, in part because it is cheap, hardy, and has a surprising number of applications. This made it a natural choice for electronic music experiments in noise since the seventies. 

In 2007 the Noisemusick Board was adapted into a PCB and bag of parts that was suitable for the masses. Three varieties exist: the blue commercial kit, a perfboard prototype, and a variant of the commercial board that was branded to appeal to young girls. The later was a complete flop; it turned out that girls preferred the blue boards as much as boys. After a year of poor sales, the remaining 100,000 Noisemusick circuit boards were buried in a landfill in New Mexico.

<!-- The remainder appears on the web page -->

<Noisemusick kit image>

The original circuit boards were inspired by a workshop presented by Jessica Piper (nee Rylan) in the early 21st Century. 

<Jessica Rylan BPNG image>
Caption: The touch sensitive version of BPNG synth.

In the Noisemusick Kit, the circuit uses your body instead of the input resistor; most people have a skin resistance in the megaohm range (on the outside at least; kiloohms once you break the skin). Since your body is essentially a big bag of salty water, you'll introduce some capacitance into the circuit for additional fun. The capacitors are sized to bring the base frequency into the audible range, although sometimes the instrument can scream past 20kHz. 

<Noisemusick Kit schematic>

The original Noisemusick schematic includes two infrared sensors for additional chaos on the inputs. Since your mobile device doesn't have an infrared input, the circuit has been modified accordingly.

Also Heard On

You may have heard the instrument before, on the following recordings:

- One of many chaotic inputs on Meat The Beatless by The Beatless (2006)
- Massimo Russolo (Luigi Russolo's grandson) used a Noisekit in a 2003 performance at STEIM
- It may appear on the massive 62 disc compilation History of Electronic / Electroacoustic Music [1937-2001] (it's hard to tell)